Tactical Plan for Improving the Real-Time LLM Trading Strategy
Pre-Market Context Generation & Symbol Selection

Full Watchlist Context at Premarket: Every morning before market open, run the context compilation for all symbols in the watchlist. This includes pulling daily bias predictions and key levels for each ETF (e.g. QQQ, SPY, IWM, etc.) and summarizing any pertinent news. By 9:00 AM EST, the system should have a baseline context ready for the day (bullish/bearish bias with confidence, overnight gaps, key highs/lows from prior sessions, etc.).

Handpick 3–5 Focus Symbols: From the full watchlist context, programmatically select a subset of 3–5 symbols to focus on during the session. Selection criteria can include: highest bias confidence scores, significant pre-market price moves or volume surges, and symbols with notable news catalysts. This filtering ensures the LLM analyzes only the most promising setups each day, reducing unnecessary calls. (The system could also allow manual override to include specific symbols of interest.)

Context for Chosen Symbols: For each chosen symbol, prepare a concise context summary to feed the LLM. This might include the daily bias (e.g. Bullish with 80% confidence), critical HTF levels (prior day high/low, etc.), and any overnight news summary. By doing this heavy lifting at premarket for all symbols and then narrowing down, we ensure no symbol is ignored in context-building, yet we limit LLM probing to a manageable few symbols during live trading. This balances preparedness with efficiency.

Refactoring LLM Calls – Per-Symbol Queries

Isolate Symbol Prompts: Refactor the real-time analysis loop to query the LLM separately for each symbol instead of one large prompt covering the entire watchlist. Currently, the trade_analyzer composes a single prompt with all symbols' data; this will be split so that each selected symbol gets its own prompt call. This change allows parallelization and smaller prompt sizes, greatly improving speed and lowering token usage.

Minimal Prompt Content: Streamline the prompt for each symbol to include only the essential, up-to-date data for that asset. For example, provide the symbol's premarket context (bias, key levels) and latest few price bars or pertinent statistics, along with any active confluences detected (see next section). Omit extraneous historical data or verbose text. The goal is to supply just enough information for the LLM to analyze the current setup without having to process the entire day's history each time.

Parallel or Asynchronous Calls: Design the loop so that the 3–5 symbol-specific LLM calls can be made in parallel (if the LLM API and infrastructure support it) or in rapid succession. Since each prompt is lightweight, the LLM can respond quickly for one symbol before moving to the next. This per-symbol focus ensures latency is kept low – critical for real-time trading – and that one slow response doesn’t block analysis of other symbols.

Consistency of Output: Ensure each per-symbol LLM call returns a standardized JSON or structured response for that symbol (containing fields like favored_position, confidence, trade parameters, etc., similar to the current design). The main loop can then aggregate or handle these individual outputs easily, just as it did when parsing a single response, but now with more granularity and speed.

Deterministic Confluence Detection Engine

Build a Confluence Engine Module: Develop a dedicated module (e.g. confluence_engine.py) that continuously scans incoming price data to detect ICT confluences in real time, instead of relying on the LLM to identify them from raw data. Many key signals can be determined through mathematical rules:

Break of Structure (BOS): Detect when price decisively breaks a previous swing high or low (e.g. a candle close above a recent high for bullish BOS). This can be coded by tracking recent pivot highs/lows on the 5m chart and flagging a BOS when one is violated.

Fair Value Gap (FVG): Identify 3-candle price imbalances (gaps between candle 1 and 3). The engine can scan for instances where, say, the low of a candle is above the high of a candle two periods prior (bullish FVG) or vice versa for bearish, indicating an inefficiency.

Order Block (OB): Find the last down-close candle before a significant up-move (bullish OB) or last up-close before a drop (bearish OB). Codify this by detecting when a large impulse move occurs; mark the preceding small-range candle as a potential OB zone. This is somewhat heuristic – e.g. look for a candle whose range lies near a swing extreme just before a rapid move in the opposite direction.

Breaker Block (BB): Detect when a previously identified OB fails (price trades through it) and then that zone flips role. Concretely, if an OB was marked and price later violates it (goes beyond it by a significant amount), log that event. If price returns to that zone subsequently, that OB becomes a Breaker Block – a high-probability entry zone in the new direction. This logic can be implemented by keeping track of active OBs and checking for their breach and re-test.

SMT Divergence: Compute inter-market divergences between correlated symbols (e.g. SPY vs QQQ). For example, if QQQ makes a higher high but SPY fails to and makes a lower high, flag an SMT bearish divergence. This requires monitoring swings on both instruments in parallel (likely focusing on 5m or 15m swing points) and checking for out-of-sync highs/lows. This can be done mathematically by comparing recent peak/valley timestamps and values across the two series.

79% Fibonacci Retracement: Calculate when price retraces roughly 79% of a prior move. Once a potential reversal move occurs (say an initial swing from a low to high in a bullish reversal), compute the 79% retracement level of that swing. If subsequent pullback reaches that level (within a small tolerance), flag this confluence. This is a straightforward calculation given a defined swing high and low.

Equilibrium (EQ) Level: Compute the 50% midpoint of relevant ranges. For instance, equilibrium of the current day’s high-low range, or of the last big 5m swing. If price retraces to ~50% of a range after a move, that can be noted as a confluence (often indicating a fair value zone). This is easily computed whenever a new range extreme is set.

Inverse FVG (iFVG): Identify small counter-trend FVGs that get quickly filled or “disrespected”. In practice, this means catching instances where a minor FVG forms against the prevailing bias (e.g. a tiny bullish gap during an otherwise bearish move) but is soon filled as price continues in the original direction. The engine can detect all small FVGs and then check if subsequent candles immediately negate them (trading back through the gap). Such occurrences can be flagged as iFVG confluences.

LLM vs. Code – Task Division: Most of the above signals can be detected via deterministic rules, which enhances speed and consistency. The LLM’s role can then shift to interpreting the significance or combining of these confluences rather than finding them. For example, code might output “BOS + 79% Fib confluence detected on 5m,” and the LLM can evaluate if that constitutes a strong reversal confirmation. Some pattern nuances that are harder to hard-code (e.g. distinguishing the most relevant OB in a cluster, or confirming an iFVG’s context) could still be left for the LLM’s judgment. However, the plan is to minimize such reliance. Ideally, the confluence engine provides a clear, structured list of active signals, and the LLM simply uses that structured data to form a trading decision (or even we could apply simple rules on the code side like “if at least 2 of X, Y, Z confluences are present, confidence = high”).

Real-Time Operation: Integrate this engine into the live data feed (which updates every 30-60 seconds via Alpaca API). On each new price update or bar close, run the confluence checks for each symbol. The output can be a list (or dict) of detected confluences per symbol, possibly with timestamps. Because these signals are generated deterministically, they can trigger immediately when conditions are met, without waiting for an LLM round-trip. This also means the LLM prompt can be pre-filled with these findings instead of raw price data, making the AI’s job easier and faster.

Context State Tracking per Symbol & Timeframe

Structured Context Object: Introduce a state tracker for each symbol that records the evolving signal state across different timeframes/stages (e.g. 5m reversal stage, 5m confirmation stage, 1m entry stage). A clean way to implement this is via a SymbolState data class or dictionary structure. For example:

class SymbolState:
    bias: str  # daily bias e.g. 'bullish'/'bearish'/'choppy'
    reversal_confirmed: bool 
    confirmation_confirmed: bool 
    entry_triggered: bool 
    active_confluences: List[str]  # e.g. ["BOS", "79% Fib"]
    last_update_time: datetime 
    # ... additional fields like detected entry price, SL, TP if in a trade


Each symbol’s state can be stored in a global current_context dict (and even persisted to JSON for logging/audit, as done currently). This structure will be the single source of truth for what’s happening with each symbol at any given time.

Maintaining Stage State: The trading methodology has distinct stages (reversal, confirmation, entry), so use the state flags to track progression:

Reversal stage: Initially, reversal_confirmed=False. The state tracker monitors for reversal confluences (e.g. liquidity sweep + BOS on 5m). When the confluence engine detects a valid reversal pattern (say a BOS plus one other signal like SMT), mark reversal_confirmed=True for that symbol and record the time/price. At this point, the strategy knows the market has likely reversed direction on the 5m.

Confirmation stage: Once reversal is confirmed, begin watching for continuation/confirmation confluences to ensure the move is sustained (e.g. price returning to a 5m FVG or OB in the new direction, forming a continuation pattern). The state might have confirmation_confirmed=False initially. If the confluence engine flags, for example, a bullish 5m Fair Value Gap plus a bounce off equilibrium, then mark confirmation_confirmed=True. This indicates the trend continuation is validated and we can start hunting an entry.

Entry (1m) stage: With confirmation in place, zoom into 1m for entry triggers. Here, the state tracker checks for entry confluences (like a 1m BOS or small iFVG in the direction of the trend). Once a low-timeframe entry condition is met, set entry_triggered=True and record the proposed entry level. At this point, the system can generate a trade signal with specific parameters. After an entry is executed (or if the opportunity passes), the state can reset or move to a trade management mode.

Automatic Invalidation of Confluences: The context tracker will also be responsible for invalidating or clearing signals when conditions change. For example, if a reversal was confirmed but then price makes a new low against the trade direction (invalidating the prior BOS), we should flip reversal_confirmed back to False and clear any associated confluences (the prior setup failed). Similarly, if an OB was identified but later price action shows it’s no longer relevant (e.g. price blew past it without respect), remove that OB from active confluences. This logic can be implemented by comparing current price against stored levels: if the structure that gave a signal is broken, mark it inactive. The confluence engine can assist by flagging negative events (like “structure broken” signals).

Stateful Context for Prompts: With this structured context per symbol, the LLM prompts (especially the slow loop context updates) can directly serialize the state. Instead of feeding lengthy raw data, the prompt can say (in structured form), for example: “Symbol: SPY, bias: Bullish, active_confluences: [‘BOS’, ‘FVG’], reversal_confirmed: true, confirmation_confirmed: false, favored_position: long”. This gives the LLM a high-level snapshot to work with. Indeed, the system already has a concept of active_confluences and context snapshot in JSON – we will enhance that structure and ensure it stays up-to-date in real time. Each update loop, refresh the context object for any new or cleared confluences and toggle state flags accordingly.

Clean Lifecycle Management: Ensure that when a trade is taken for a symbol, its context moves to a managed state (to avoid issuing multiple signals on the same symbol). For instance, if entry_triggered=True and an active trade is open, the system might pause further LLM analysis on that symbol until the trade is resolved, or only monitor for exit conditions. If the trade closes (TP hit, SL hit, or manually exited), reset the state (or mark that symbol’s state as waiting for the next setup, possibly starting again at reversal stage detection). Keeping this lifecycle clear in the state tracker will add discipline and prevent confusion if multiple signals appear sequentially.

Post-Trade Signal Validation Module

Purpose: Introduce a post-validator that scrutinizes any trade signal output (whether generated by the LLM or by a deterministic rule) before execution. This acts as a safety net to ensure all trade parameters make sense and adhere to strategy rules. It will catch errors or bad suggestions, increasing trust and auditability.

Validation Checks: The validator will verify at minimum:

Take-Profit Direction: The take-profit (TP) level must be on the correct side of the entry. For a long trade, TP should be above the entry price; for a short, TP should be below entry. This ensures the trade is actually aiming for a profit in the intended direction (sometimes an LLM might conceivably output a wrong value – this check prevents execution of a nonsensical trade).

Stop-Loss Placement: The stop-loss (SL) should be placed at a structurally logical level beyond the entry point, not too tight or on the wrong side. Specifically, the SL should lie just beyond the recent swing that justified the entry (e.g. below the reversal swing low for a long, as per strategy guidelines). The validator will check that SL is not above the entry for a long (or below entry for a short), and ideally that it’s at least a certain distance away to account for noise (this distance could be a few ticks beyond the structure point). Essentially, SL must be “behind” the entry in terms of market structure – if it isn’t, the signal is likely invalid.

Risk-Reward (R:R) Ratio: Enforce a minimum risk-reward ratio for all trades. The system configuration already includes a MINIMUM_RISK_REWARD_RATIO parameter – commonly at least 1.0 or higher. The validator will calculate the R:R from the provided entry, SL, and TP (i.e. potential reward distance divided by risk distance) and ensure it meets or exceeds the minimum (never below 1.0 as per the requirement). If a trade comes back with a sub-1.0 R:R, it will be rejected or adjusted, since it doesn’t align with our strategy’s risk management criteria.

Clear Specification: Check that the signal is fully and clearly specified. The LLM’s JSON (or the signal object) should contain all required fields (entry, stop_loss, take_profit, confidence, etc.) and that they are coherent. For instance, if any field is missing or null, or the favored direction is "long" but the numeric values imply a short, then something is wrong. The validator should catch these inconsistencies.

Action on Failure: If any of the above checks fail, the system should not execute the trade as-is. Depending on design, it could either: 1) Drop the signal entirely (no trade taken, log the reason), or 2) Attempt to fix the signal (for example, if R:R is 0.8, maybe by adjusting TP to achieve >=1.0, or if SL is too tight, widen it to the nearest valid swing). The safer approach is simply to reject and wait for a better signal, to avoid introducing bias. The validator essentially acts as a final gatekeeper so that only high-quality, strategy-compliant trades go through.

Integration: Implement the validator as a function or small module (validate_signal(signal) -> bool) that runs after receiving trade parameters from the LLM. In the main loop, when a signal is generated (with confidence above threshold, etc.), insert a step: if not validate_signal(signal): discard it. Also log when a signal is discarded and why (e.g., “Signal for SPY 10:35 rejected: R:R 0.8 < 1.0”). This adds to transparency and helps fine-tune the LLM or rules if needed (for example, if LLM frequently proposes bad R:R, we might address that in prompt engineering).

Trimming Slow-Loop Context & Prompt Size

Focus on Active Confluences: The slow loop (the less frequent, more comprehensive context update that runs ~every few minutes) should be refactored to include only active or very recent confluences and data. Remove any stale or irrelevant information from the context before building the prompt. For example: if several hours have passed since a certain confluence triggered and it’s no longer valid, it shouldn’t remain in the context snapshot. Keep the context lean and relevant – e.g., the current bias, current active confluences list, last known key price levels, and perhaps a brief note on any recent structural change.

Limit Historical Data in Prompt: Instead of dumping large price history or lengthy analyses into the slow-loop prompt, leverage the structured state. Since the deterministic engine is handling the heavy lifting of analysis, the prompt doesn’t need raw OHLC data or verbose recaps of the entire day. It can be a concise JSON summary (as mentioned in the state tracking section) and a direct question to the LLM like: “Given this state, do we have a valid setup? If confidence ≥ X, provide trade plan.” This dramatically reduces token count and avoids overloading the LLM with repetitive context each cycle.

Prune on the Fly: Implement logic to prune the current_context before each slow-loop run. For instance, maintain timestamps on each confluence detected (already inherently real-time). When assembling the context for prompt, include only those confluences that are currently active or that triggered within the last N minutes. For anything older, drop it unless it's still relevant (e.g., a higher-timeframe bias or level can remain). In code, this could mean filtering active_confluences list to those that haven’t been marked inactive. The slow-loop context thus becomes a rolling window of what’s happening now or in the very recent past, ensuring the LLM focuses on the present situation.

Results: Faster and More Relevant Responses: By trimming the prompt content, the LLM’s processing time in the slow loop will improve, and it will likely yield more focused insights. We expect less repetitive or stale commentary (as sometimes seen when too much context leads the LLM to regurgitate old info). The LLM will instead pinpoint analysis on the current active signals and the next action. This not only speeds up the loop but enhances clarity – which is crucial for auditability, as the outputs will be easier to interpret and trust when they’re not buried in superfluous context.

Example: Previously, the slow loop might have fed a full day’s worth of narrative and all detected signals into the prompt, causing very long responses. After trimming, a prompt might look like: “Overall bias: Bullish. Active 5m confluences: BOS, SMT divergence. 5m confirmation pending (no FVG retest yet). No 1m entry yet. Key levels: PDH 4200, current price 4185. What is the favored action?” This is short and sweet, and the LLM can directly address the current scenario. The system can assemble such a prompt easily from the state tracker.

Backtesting & Simulation Framework

Simulated Live Trading Mode: Develop a backtesting system that can replay historical data minute-by-minute through the strategy logic, to validate performance without risking capital. The project already has a test mode (simulated clock) capability; we will build on this to gather detailed results. Key features of the backtester:

No Future Leak: Ensure that at each step, the strategy only sees data up to that minute. This means feeding candles or ticks incrementally as if in real time, and having the confluence engine and LLM (or its stand-in) make decisions based solely on past and present data. We must be careful that the backtester doesn’t inadvertently use future knowledge (e.g. knowing a high of day in advance) – it should strictly emulate how the live system would behave at that moment in history.

Use Real Strategy Logic: The backtest harness will utilize the same modules we’ve refactored: the confluence engine, state tracker, LLM calls (which in backtest could be either actual calls if we allow, or a stubbed logic), and validator. This ensures we are testing the true strategy and not a simplified proxy. We might introduce a mode where the LLM is replaced by a basic rule (like if two confluences present then go long) for speed, but ideally we can also run with the actual LLM in a slower offline test for high fidelity.

Minute-by-Minute Iteration: For each minute of historical data: update prices, run the fast-loop logic (confluence detection, LLM signal generation) and slow-loop logic as appropriate (context updates every ~5 minutes, for example, using the same timing as live). Any time a signal is generated that passes the confidence threshold and validator, “execute” it in the simulation. Record the entry price, SL, and TP. Then continue stepping through time to see what happens.

Track Outcomes: The backtester will monitor each simulated trade to determine if it hits the take-profit or stop-loss first, and when. This can be done by watching subsequent price data for the symbol once a trade is active: as soon as price touches the TP level, mark a win; if it touches SL first, mark a loss (and then exit that trade in the simulation). Also note how long it took (could be useful to measure average trade duration) and any partial hits if applicable (though likely using full TP/SL hits for simplicity).

Metrics Collection: Store every signal and its result. We can create a backtest_results structure that logs each trade with details: date/time, symbol, confluences present, direction, entry, SL, TP, outcome (win/loss), R:R, etc. From this, compute summary statistics: win rate, average R:R achieved, maximum drawdown if sequence of losses, etc. This directly addresses the "track hits/misses on SL/TP for each signal" requirement. For instance, we might output: “Out of 50 backtested signals, Thirty hit TP (60%), Twenty hit SL (40%). Average R:R of winners 1.5, losers -1.0, etc.” Such data will be invaluable for refining the strategy.

Visualization & Debugging: (Optional but useful) The backtester could also produce a log or even chart marks for each trade, to visually inspect if the signals align with ICT concepts as expected. This could be as simple as printing out each trade event, or writing results to a JSON/CSV for analysis in a Jupyter notebook. Auditability is key – we should be able to explain why each backtested trade was taken. With our structured confluence data, we can say, for example, “Trade #5: QQQ long at 10:45 because BOS + 79%Fib + SMT divergence were active (LLM confidence 75). TP hit at 10:55 for +1.2R”. This level of detail closes the loop between strategy design and performance.

Integrate with Test Mode: Likely we will integrate this backtesting capability into the existing codebase’s test mode (or extend it). The code already supports fast and slow loop timing for simulation; we can add hooks to collect results during these simulations. For example, each time a to_signal_packets function produces a signal above threshold in test mode, instead of (or in addition to) printing it, feed it into our backtest result tracker. We’ll also need to inject logic to simulate price progression for trades – possibly by checking the next bars in the pre-fetched data for TP/SL hits.

No-LLM Option: To speed up bulk backtests, we might allow running the strategy logic in a “rules-only” mode (LLM disabled). In this mode, the confluence engine and some simple logic could emulate the LLM’s decision: e.g. go long if bias is bullish and at least 2 of the key confluences are present, etc. While this won’t capture the full nuance of LLM analysis, it can give a ballpark of strategy efficacy and is much faster/cheaper to run repeatedly. Then a smaller number of scenarios can be double-checked using the actual LLM in the loop for higher fidelity.

Iterate and Improve: Use the backtesting results to iterate on the strategy. For example, if backtests show a lot of false signals when only one confluence was present, we might raise the requirement to two confluences for a valid setup. Or if certain confluences never led to winning trades in history, perhaps we down-weight or remove them. This system will provide the empirical feedback needed to tune thresholds (like the confidence cutoff, currently perhaps 70 or so) and other parameters before deploying changes live.

Incremental Rollout and Development Timeline

To implement these improvements while ensuring stability, we will roll them out in stages:

Phase 1 – Symbol Selection & LLM Call Refactor: Start by modifying the live loop to use the new symbol subset approach and per-symbol LLM calls. Implement the pre-market context generation for all symbols (bias + news context if not already in place) and the logic to pick the top 3-5 symbols for the session. Refactor the trade_analyzer or equivalent to build prompts on a per-symbol basis and handle multiple LLM responses. Test this change in isolation (paper trading) to ensure that latency improves and outputs remain consistent. At this stage, the core strategy logic (confluences, etc.) might still be handled by the LLM as before, but the infrastructure for multiple small prompts will be in place. Monitor that the LLM’s responses per symbol are coherent and that the system correctly aggregates them.

Phase 2 – Implement Confluence Engine (Deterministic Signals): Develop and integrate the confluence detection engine. This involves writing functions for each signal (BOS, FVG, OB, etc.) and testing them on historical data or real-time feeds to ensure they trigger correctly. Once validated, incorporate the engine into the live fast-loop: instead of sending raw price data to the LLM, start populating the active_confluences in the context for each symbol in real time. During this phase, we might run the engine in parallel with the old method to cross-verify (e.g., log when the LLM says “BOS” and when our engine detects BOS, to see if they match). Gradually shift the LLM prompt to rely on the engine’s output: for example, the prompt can be changed to “Here are the detected confluences and state – analyze them” rather than “Here is price data – find confluences”. Roll this out in paper trading and verify that the LLM’s trade decisions still align with expectations when using the code-derived signals.

Phase 3 – State Tracker & Context Management: Introduce the state tracking structure per symbol and modify the context/prompt building accordingly. This is when we truly trim the prompt down using our structured state. Implement the logic for stage transitions (reversal->confirmation->entry) and ensure the context JSON reflects those in current_context. Remove legacy parts of prompts like large price dumps or repetitive text, and replace with the concise state summary. Deploy this updated context handling in a test environment – the LLM should now receive a much slimmer prompt. We need to carefully verify that the LLM still performs well: since the prompt format changed, ensure the parsing of LLM output (via Pydantic models or schema validation) still works and that the LLM understands the new input. This phase makes the system more modular and transparent, as the LLM is effectively reading our state rather than deducing everything itself. By end of this phase, the LLM is mostly confined to interpreting high-level signals and suggesting final trade details, not doing raw analysis from scratch.

Phase 4 – Integrate Post-Validator: Develop the signal validator function and insert it into the live pipeline. This is relatively straightforward: once the LLM (or rule-based logic) produces a trade proposal, run the validator checks. Test this with known scenarios (you can simulate a bad signal to see if it’s caught). During paper trading, intentionally allow the LLM to propose a few trades and ensure the validator’s decisions (pass/fail) are correct. Fine-tune the thresholds (e.g., maybe you want R:R ≥ 1.2 instead of 1.0 depending on strategy) using config constants for easy adjustment. This phase increases the safety of the system – after implementation, no trade should go live without meeting our criteria. It’s important to log the validator outcomes for later review (so we know if we’re rejecting too many signals, or if the LLM frequently suggests something invalid, which might indicate a need to adjust the prompt or engine).

Phase 5 – Backtesting Development: With the live strategy shaping up, dedicate time to building the backtesting framework as outlined. Leverage the existing test mode capabilities to feed historical data, but extend it to log results and perhaps run faster than real time. You might create a new script or notebook for backtesting that can iterate over days of historical data, or integrate it as a command-line option (e.g., --backtest 2025-09-01:2025-10-01 to simulate a range of dates). Start with a smaller scope – e.g., test one symbol over one week – then ramp up. Verify that the backtester is correctly emulating the live logic (the state transitions, confluence detections, etc., should mirror what happens live). This will likely surface bugs or edge cases in our logic that weren’t apparent in real-time (e.g., how the system handles gap opens, or sudden reversals). Fix any issues as needed and rerun until the backtest flows smoothly. Once functional, run the backtester on a broad sample of historical periods to gather performance metrics. Analyze these results to confirm improvement: ideally, the refined strategy yields a higher win rate or better risk-reward profile than the old approach (which you might also simulate for comparison). Use this data to make final tweaks to parameters (confidence thresholds, confluence combos needed, etc.).

Phase 6 – Incremental Rollout to Live: After validating via paper and backtests, plan a cautious rollout to live trading. It’s wise to start in a paper trading environment if not already, for a final end-to-end rehearsal with all new pieces. Run it for several sessions and compare its behavior to the old logs – are we seeing fewer LLM calls, faster decisions, and coherent outputs? Once satisfied, deploy to a live account but possibly with minimal risk initially (small position sizes or limited number of trades per day, etc.). Monitor performance and logs closely in the first days. We expect improved speed (due to reduced prompt sizes and parallel LLM calls) and clearer decision-making (thanks to the structured confluence logic). Any anomalies (e.g., LLM confusion or missed trades) should be addressed promptly – the modular architecture makes this easier, as we can pinpoint if an issue lies in the engine, state management, or LLM output. Over time, gradually increase trade risk allocation as confidence in the updated system grows.

Throughout all phases, prioritize clean architecture and transparency. Each module (symbol selector, confluence engine, state tracker, validator, backtester) should be fairly independent and well-documented. This not only speeds up debugging but also makes future enhancements or reviews (by you or other developers) much easier. By the end of this rollout, the trading bot will be faster, leaner, and more rule-driven, with the LLM playing a focused advisory role. All decisions and signals will be backed by quantifiable conditions (logged via the state and confluence list), greatly improving the bot’s auditability and the trader’s confidence in its actions. With robust backtesting capabilities, we’ll also be able to continuously validate and improve the strategy as market conditions evolve, all while keeping the core ICT methodology intact and systematically implemented.